Add storage sink consumer developing guide (#11736)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-storage-consumer-dev-guide.md

title: Guide for Developing a Storage Sink Consumer
summary: Learn how to design and implement a consumer to consume data changes in storage sinks.
---

# Guide for Developing a Storage Sink Consumer

This document describes how to design and implement a TiDB data change consumer.

> **Note:**
>
> The storage sink cannot handle the `DROP DATABASE` DDL. Therefore, avoid executing this DDL. If you do need to execute this DDL, execute it manually in the downstream MySQL.

TiCDC does not provide any standard way for implementing a consumer. This document provides a consumer example program written in Golang. This program can read data from the storage service and write the data to a MySQL-compatible database. You can refer to the data format and instructions provided in this example to implement a consumer on your own.

[Consumer program written in Golang](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/tree/master/cmd/storage-consumer)

## Design a consumer

The following diagram shows the overall consumption process of the consumer:

![TiCDC storage consumer overview](/media/ticdc/ticdc-storage-consumer-overview.png)

The components of the consumer and their features are described as follows:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```go
```

func (tc *TableConsumer) ExecuteDDL() {}

type TableVersionConsumer struct {
  // This checkpoint indicates where the TableVersionConsumer has consumed.
  // Its initial value is TableConsumer.Checkpoint.
  Checkpoint int64

  schema,table,version string
  // For the same table version, data in different partitions can be consumed concurrently.
  # partitionNum int64
  // Must be consumed sequentially according to the data file number.
  fileSet map[filename string]*TableVersionConsumer
  currentVersion
}
// If data commit ts is less than TableConsumer.Checkpoint
// or bigger than ConsumerManager.StorageCheckpoint,
// - ignore this data.
// Otherwise,
// - process this data and write it to MySQL.
func (tc *TableVersionConsumer) ExecuteDML() {}
```

## Process DDL events

The consumer traverses the directory for the first time. The following is an example:

```
├── metadata
└── test
    ├── tbl_1
    │   └── 437752935075545091
    │       ├── CDC000001.json
    │       └── schema.json
```

The consumer parses the table schema of the `schema.json` file and obtains the DDL Query statements:

> - If no Query statement is found or `TableVersion` is less than the consumer checkpoint, the consumer skips this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If no Query statement is found or `TableVersion` is less than the consumer checkpoint, the consumer skips this statement.
```

- If Query statements exist or `TableVersion` is equal to or greater than the consumer checkpoint, the consumer executes the DDL statements in the downstream MySQL.

Then the consumer starts replicating the `CDC000001.json` file.

> In the following example, DDL query result in the `test/tbl_1/437752935075545091/schema.json` file is not empty:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the DDL Query statements in the `test/tbl_1/437752935075545091/schema.json` file is not empty:
```

```json
{
    "Table":"test",
    "Schema":"tbl_1",
    "Version": 1,
    "TableVersion":437752935075545091,
    "Query": "create table tbl_1 (Id int primary key, LastName char(20), FirstName varchar(30), HireDate datetime, OfficeLocation Blob(20))",
    "TableColumns":[
        {
            "ColumnName":"Id",
            "ColumnType":"INT",
            "ColumnNullable":"false",
            "ColumnIsPk":"true"
        },
        {
            "ColumnName":"LastName",
            "ColumnType":"CHAR",
            "ColumnLength":"20"
        },
        {
            "ColumnName":"FirstName",
            "ColumnType":"VARCHAR",
            "ColumnLength":"30"
        },
        {
            "ColumnName":"HireDate",
            "ColumnType":"DATETIME"
        },
        {
            "ColumnName":"OfficeLocation",
            "ColumnType":"BLOB",
            "ColumnLength":"20"
        }
    ],
    "TableColumnsTotal":"5"
}
```

> When the consumer traverses the directory again, it finds another new version directory of the table. Note that you can consume data in the new directory only after all files in the `test/tbl_1/437752935075545091` directory have been consumed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the consumer traverses the directory again, it finds a new version directory of the table. Note that the consumer can consume data in the new directory only after all files in the `test/tbl_1/437752935075545091` directory have been consumed.
```

```
├── metadata
└── test
    ├── tbl_1
    │   ├── 437752935075545091
    │   │   ├── CDC000001.json
    │   │   └── schema.json
    │   └── 437752935075546092
    │   │   └── CDC000001.json
    │   │   └── schema.json
```

> The consumption logic is consistent. Specifically, the consumer parses the table schema of the `schema.json` file and obtains and processes DDL query statements accordingly. Then the consumer starts replicating the `CDC000001.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The consumption logic is consistent. Specifically, the consumer parses the table schema of the `schema.json` file and obtains and processes DDL Query statements accordingly. Then the consumer starts replicating the `CDC000001.json` file.
```
